Saturday --- it's the weekend !
SE Director Derek Rayside se-director at uwaterloo.ca
Sat Mar 21 21:17:44 EDT 2020

Hello SE Students,

Today is Saturday. It's the weekend. The office is closed, as a normal 
matter of course. Nothing has changed. There is no news. Lovely!

It was not always thus. The weekend is a concept that's only been 
official for about a hundred years. The three main western monotheisms 
(Judaism, Christianity, and Islam), have no religious concept of 
"weekend". They do have a concept of a day of worship. But that's one 
day, and the weekend is two days. Who do we have to thank for the second 
day? I've read different histories, some saying it's the labour unions, 
one even claiming that Henry Ford invented the weekend. We may not know 
who to thank, but we can still be grateful for the weekend.

The weekend is a good time for many things that we don't always have the 
time or opportunity for during the week. Cooking is sometimes one of 
those things. One strategy is to cook in large batches on the weekend, 
and then have food throughout the week. One good appliance for 
implementing that strategy is the Instant Pot.

     https://instantpot.com/

Patrick introduced me to the Instant Pot a few years ago. It's great. 
It's SE380 in action: a bunch of control systems to regulate temperature 
and pressure, designed by a Canadian engineer who left the telecom 
business to innovate in small kitchen appliances. There are a few things 
that I really like about it:

  * Never have to worry about undercooking or overcooking. The recipe
    will always specify time and pressure, so you just program the
    machine to those specs and it cooks the food, then switches to "keep
    warm" mode.
  * Separate cooking time from eating time. I usually cook after dinner.
    Like I did today. Cooking when hungry isn't a great strategy for me.
    So after supper I chop everything up and throw it in the pot. Then
    the next day I eat it.
  * Many of the recipes are easy, healthful, nutritious, and inexpensive.
  * Has a saute mode, so you can saute the onions and garlic in the pot
    before switching over to the pressure-cooker mode. Saves having to
    wash a frying pan.
  * Can also be used as a rice cooker. Mostly we use our Zojirushi for
    cooking rice, but right now I'm making rice & beans in the Instant
    Pot, and appreciate that it can do combo dishes like this.

I didn't learn really anything about cooking until six years ago when I 
was on parental leave with my daughter when she was a baby. My 
grandfather learned how to cook after he retired, so I beat him on that 
by several decades. Of course, he didn't have the opportunity for 
parental leave when my mother was born. I would have learned more in 
school (and got better grades) if I had learned how to cook and eat a 
balanced diet earlier in life.

My main criticism of the Instant Pot is that the UI looks like it was 
designed by an electrical engineer ... because it was ... You could do 
better, because learning about UI design is actually part of your core 
curriculum, whereas it wasn't for the Instant Pot designer.

Canadian Tire has the Instant Pot on sale this weekend. There are a 
bunch of different models, but this one that's on sale is the one that 
most people would usually buy:

https://www.canadiantire.ca/en/pdp/instant-pot-duo-nova-multi-cooker-6-qt-0432725p.html

Here are two recipe websites that I like:

     https://www.pressurecookrecipes.com/
     https://amindfullmom.com/easy-healthy-instant-pot-recipes/

So today let's be grateful for the weekend, and appreciate the good work 
that Canadian engineers do in the kitchen.

Be well, do good work, stay in touch,
-- 

*Derek Rayside, PhD, PEng*
Director, Software Engineering <https://uwaterloo.ca/software-engineering>
University of Waterloo
Calendar <https://ece.uwaterloo.ca/~drayside/cal/>. DC-2539 or E7-5426.
