 Hello SE Students,

Today my words come to you via the great software of speech to text conversion.  The primary physical occupational hazard in our line of work is repetitive stress injury from typing too much.  My typing injury has been building through this term, and this is the next step in my remediation plan.  Under normal circumstances I'm usually not in places where I can dictate to the computer.  But now, in the age of the virus, this is a new opportunity for me.

I just came back home from delivering supper to my sister who is in self isolation from having just returned from the United States.  We were reflecting on how difficult it can be to maintain structure and wellness in one's life under the circumstances.  She was feeling a bit overwhelmed yesterday.  I pointed and that solitary confinement is an extra level of punishment within the prison system.  She had a better day today.

Shaz and I have two ideas for you today to try to help you maintain structure and wellness in your lives under these difficult circumstances.

1.  Schedule: follow your regular class schedule, as if those things still existed in that way.  Maybe this will help give you some order in your day.  Maybe your professors are still following the old schedule I'm not sure.  In the summer term there will officially be no schedules, but we are going to recommend that students follow the schedule that might have been.

2.  Daily Jog Log: many sets of best practices include keeping a daily diary.  In that spirit, I have made us a Google form, with a set of simple boolean questions about sleep, diet, exercise, self care, and studying.  This is intended to be anonymous and write only.  Yet it is still a shared and collective experience, where we hold ourselves accountable to each other.  When you answer these simple boolean questions, practice self compassion: to be kind to yourself.  This is not a time to be an optimizer; not a time to be critical of yourself; not a time to think of all of the ways in which things could have been epsilon better.  The purpose of this daily log is to help you stay balanced.  You might find that balance in other ways, and that's great.  This is one option for you to try, and away for us to create a small share experience and sense of community.
    https://forms.gle/e9Ur4qdQvvyLh5nVA

Credit / No Credit

As you may know, the registrar is giving all students the option, for all courses this term, to convert numeric grades in to pass/fail (credit/no credit) after the term is over.  You can see how your grades turn and this term and then convert them if you want to.


Tomorrow I'm looking forward to another great day of SE2020 capstone presentations. Really inspiring to see all of your great projects. Good job!

Be well, do good work, stay in touch.
-- 

Derek Rayside, PhD, PEng
Director, Software Engineering
University of Waterloo
Calendar. DC-2539 or E7-5426.
