

Hello SE Students,

Today is Sunday. We made our fortnightly voyage to Costco on the family bike. It's about an hour each way. Beautiful ride by the lake. One of my sisters has come with us on the last two trips, and she's loving it. This is now the most fun that the law allows: biking to the grocery store.

    https://www.thestar.com/news/gta/2017/09/29/how-this-family-of-four-transports-themselves-and-900-of-costco-groceries-all-on-one-bike.html

Things have evolved a bit since that article. Just on these last two trips, our eldest now rides his own bike, and even carries back a fair amount of groceries. I load his bike with low-density high-volume stuff like salad. I'll wait until he turns ten before I have him haul laundry detergent.

In addition to groceries and laundry and other such things, Sunday is also a good day for reflection and looking ahead. What is happening this week? The Registrar's page of important dates tells us that Monday and Tuesday are study days. The "alternative assessment period" begins on Wednesday. 

    https://uwaterloo.ca/registrar/important-dates/calendar

There are also some very important holidays this week. Passover begins on Wednesday, and Good Friday is on Friday. Woah, I just realized that I didn't write about Persian New Year a couple of weeks ago. Oops. Was I writing daily letters then? Anyhow, all three of these are amazing astronomical events: look up how the dates are determined. The Persian New Year is based on an extremely precise position of the sun (more precise than anything in the Gregorian calendar that is the international civil standard). Easter depends on the position of both the sun and the moon: it's the first Sunday after the first full moon after the spring equinox. Passover, since the fourth century CE, has been fixed on the moon (prior to that it depended on both the moon and the barley harvest). 

In the ancient world, one of the main practical uses of advanced mathematics was figuring out calendar stuff. Scheduling is hard.

Ok, so today's reflection is that when you are feeling a bit overwhelmed or defeated by a complex situation, talk to a friend to help you think it through.

For a while I've been privately wrestling with a problem. I want to ask somebody something, but I fear that they will say "no". Rejection sucks. So I haven't asked. And the situation is so complex that I needed a really good friend like Patrick to talk to about it. Happily, Patrick gave me a call this evening as he was walking to the grocery store in New Zealand (Sunday, eh).  Patrick walked almost as far today as I biked: almost 25km.

Patrick helped me think about some alternatives. Like, I could just do what I want to do and beg for forgiveness later --- without ever asking for permission. Or I could ask somebody else who would probably tell me "yes", even though they aren't the right person to give me that permission. Sometimes those approaches are appropriate, but not in this case we decided. 

Finally we found an approach that might work. Instead of asking an abstract yes/no question, I'll ask a more concrete question that spells out a process by which what I want can be achieved while still respecting everyone else. Because the thing I want is for sure colouring outside the lines. As you might have noticed, I like to colour outside the lines. But if you ask somebody an abstract question like "hey, may I colour outside the lines?" they will probably say no, because there are all kinds of messes you might get into colouring outside the lines. So instead I'll ask a more concrete question, like "may I colour the first full moon after the spring equinox in this specific place outside the lines?" I might be able to get a "yes" with a more specific question like that. Fingers crossed.

Good night moon.

Be well, do good work, stay in touch,
Derek.
