 Hello SE Students,

Today Helen from SE2024 wrote in with a great question: should she sign a lease in Waterloo for September? Will the fall term be on campus or online? Wow, great questions.

Here's where the university is at: today they asked me who will do my job if I get sick. Patrick will be thrilled to read here that I wrote his name down. My grandfather, who was a chemical engineer, used to tell me that successful organizations have good succession planning. So score one for UW today.

Nobody knows what will happen in September. Everyone hopes that we will be together on campus. In places that have handled this pandemic well, they have returned to school on that kind of time frame. The number of places that have handled this well is small. I feel cautiously optimistic about Ontario and Canada. But we all need to do our parts now to reduce transmission so that we can come back to campus in the fall.

Helen's prospective landlord was trying some high-pressure tactics to get her to sign today. It's a great apartment that she's excited about. Should she sign? Here's what I said:

    Here's my personal opinion on their business tactics: they are pressuring you to their advantage. Getting you to sign is best for them, and getting a “no” from you allows them to move on. I do not believe that there are lots of people looking to sign fall leases today, so I think this place will still be available next week.

    In the Myers-Briggs personality test, J-type wants to get decisions made now. P-type is comfortable to wait for more information, which always entails some unknowns and risk. I know I’m a P-type. Do you know what type you are?

    You should discuss this with your parents or other personal advisors. This decision is not really about external factors — those are largely unknowable at this time. This decision is about your tolerance for risk and the unknown. It’s a good exercise to expand your capabilities here. Managing risk is a valuable skill.


Here's what she did, which I think is very sensible:

    1.  I sent them an email asking if they could extend the deadline with a brief explanation; if they decide to not give me an extension, I’m not signing the contract.

    2. I sent out a message in the Waterloo student housing facebook group looking to sublet for only the fall term instead of signing a one-year lease, and I actually got some nice offers, which mean it’s not that urgent to sign anything just yet.


There is a lot of uncertainty in the world right now. It's hard to make concrete plans for the future. That can be stressful. Recognize when someone is trying to add to that stress, or take advantage of that stress, with some high-pressure sales tactics. Take a step back, take a breath, examine alternatives, ask for guidance.

Be well, do good work, stay in touch,
-- 

Derek Rayside, PhD, PEng
Director, Software Engineering
University of Waterloo
Calendar. DC-2539 or E7-5426.
