Hello SE Students,

Do you remember the Dr. Seuss classic story Horton Hears A Who? Horton is protecting a speck of dust on which an entire civilization of Who's live. Horton knows that they live there because he, as an elephant, has tremendous ears and can hear them. The story's antagonist cannot hear them, does not believe Horton, and wants to destroy the speck of dust out of spite. The Who's must all come together and make as much noise as possible in order to save their civilization.

My neighbourhood has just adopted this joyous practice. Every day at 7 PM we open our windows and holler and bang pots and generally cause a ruckus. I think some people in Italy started this practice. It's good fun. Encourage your neighbours to join in.

Shaz and I are working on processing the huge volume of email that you generated this week. We are now in that phase where you get impatient for one of us to process your request, and then send the same request to the other person, or in some cases to Patrick. We will get there.

Victoria is stepping back from email for a few days to study for her professional engineering licensing exam, which is next week.

Here are today's news items:

OSAP: If you are supposed to be on co-op term this summer, but are unemployed and taking courses instead, you still qualify for OSAP funding (that is, assuming you already qualified for it in a previous term --- OSAP is the Ontario Student Assistance Program).

S20 Tuition Refund: If you are supposed to be on co-op term this summer, but enrolled in courses because you do not currently have a job, and then later find a job (until the end of June, I think), then you will get a 100% tuition refund. I'm not 100% confident of when the 100% refund deadline is here, but I do know that it is being extended beyond its normal cut off in the third week of May.

DHL vs CR/NCR: My understanding today is that if your W 20 transcript has a CR or an NCR on it, then you will not be eligible for the term DHL because you will not have a term average do to the CR/NCR. You could still be eligible for graduation awards. These are the same rules that apply for exchange terms. DHL = Dean's Honour List.

sendit.uwaterloo.ca is a service you can use to send large files. You upload the file to the system, and it sends an email to your recipients with a link to download the file. 

Be well, do good work, stay in touch,
Derek.
