Hello SE Students,

One of my favourite books when I was about ten years old was Farley Mowat's Two Against the North (also published with the title Lost in the Barrens). It's a fantastic misadventure of two young teenagers who get separated from the adults, wreck their canoe, and have to survive the winter in the tundra of Nunavut. It is a story of engineering ingenuity and triumph -- a story of survival in a hostile environment while isolated from society. 

The youngsters need to find themselves food, shelter, and clothing. The book is something of a lesson in the ways of the Ihalmiut group of inland Inuit, who subsisted almost entirely from hunting caribou (reindeer). For example, in order to make winter clothing the youngsters first need to make bone needles, sinew thread, and leather. They make fire without matches or tinder. They derive everything from first principles. They iterate on their designs, learning from their missteps.

They battle a bear and the boredom of a winter in which the sun does not rise: brief moments of great intensity and long durations of nothingness. (The north is also known as the land of the midnight sun, because in summer the sun does not set.) Of course they eventually overcome every obstacle, and triumphantly return to their families in the "southern" forest lands.

One of the things we talk about in the capstone courses is how writing is like programming: both are about seeing abstractions and patterns. Like the protagonists of Mowat's book, we now find ourselves in a hostile environment. For them, the challenge is winter, whereas for us today it's the coronavirus. This hostile environment separates them, and perhaps us, from our families. For example, I no longer visit my parents, since they are in an at risk age group, just in case. 

We know that their story ends in triumph and togetherness, and that they get there through ingenuity, diligence, and perseverance. They learn that they can co-exist with nature, but they cannot bend nature to their wills. They need to find new ways of doing things that are different from how they used to do things. They make mistakes and learn from them. We can do all of this too, and we too can triumphantly return to togetherness, stronger and wiser than when we started our journey.

Two Against the North won the Governor General's Award in 1956 and the Canada Library Association Book of the Year for Children Award in 1958. Farley Mowat was a passionate environmentalist, who was sometimes scientifically inaccurate, but who is credited with contributions towards the survival of peoples, species, and the environment through his stories.

Be well, do good work, stay in touch,
Derek.
