Hello SE Students,

Today I am grateful for new funding to hire you for the summer.

But first let us pause and together be grateful that SE, again, already has the highest rate of employment in the Faculty of Engineering. Yes, our employment rate this summer is probably the lowest it has ever been, but we are collectively suffering less than many of our brothers and sisters. Be humble about that.

Last Saturday night the university announced to faculty that they had received more funding to hire some co-op students. Proposals were due yesterday. Decisions came today. So that's what I've been doing this week instead of answering your emails (sorry). In crisis there is opportunity, but sometimes things move fast.

All of our proposals were successful, and today we got funding to hire six of you (well, six co-op students), in three categories:

1. Developing a new online megagame to build cohort/community relationships, based on research from the UW Games Institute.

2. Redesigning SE380 labs as video game development. Many video games have physics. Games with physics can apply control theory for better game play. I'm really excited that this will finally connect controls to software development in a meaningful way. Solving this problem has been a major topic of discussion at the SE Curriculum Committee as long as I have been a prof here, and I think we finally have a fantastic solution.

3. Pitch your own idea! These co-op positions are to create new and improved ways for student engagement in the fall term. Your class reps suggested to me that we should just ask students for their ideas, then hire them to do it. When I sent this up the chain, the powers that be had to think about it for a bit, but they came back with enthusiasm. So get your creative thinking caps on!

These jobs will appear in WaterlooWorks tomorrow, I believe, so keep your eyes out for them. Employment will be for July and August, which is enough to count as a co-op credit under the modified rules for this term.

Be well, do good work, stay in touch,
-- 

