Hello SE Students,

Today I'm grateful that you asked us to bring back the daily letter, and that Shaz had the idea to move to a daily gratitude journal format. One thing I enjoyed about the old format was Saturday Story Time, so maybe we'll keep that in the mix, to try to help differentiate the weekend from the weekdays.

Today I want to share with you the New York Public Library's all-time most checked-out book: The Snowy Day, by Ezra Jack Keats. This lovely book won a Caldecott Medal in 1963, which is the highest award for children's literature. There is a statue honouring it in New York City, and the US Postal service a commemorative stamp about it 2017. It is a story that takes place in New York City and is written by a New Yorker.

But Saturday Story Time is not just about sharing lovely stories. It's also part of our daily letter, which means that it's about today. And this book is deeply meaningful, and deeply meaningful today. This book is on the US Library of Congress's list of Books that Shaped America. This book illustrates what some people were dreaming of in 1963, and what some people might have been dreaming today, if only for eight minutes and forty-six seconds.

It is a sweet and simple and ordinary story, and that is the source of its power and message. Today we need a sweet and simple and ordinary story with some healing power for today's wounds.

Please enjoy the text of The Snowy Day by Ezra Jack Keats below. It can be read slowly, and perhaps with a warm mug of tea.

Be well, do good work, stay in touch,
Derek.


The Snowy Day
by Ezra Jack Keats

One winter morning Peter woke up and looked out the window. Snow had fallen during the night. It covered everything as far as he could see.

After breakfast he put on a snowsuit and ran outside. The snow was piled up very high along the street to make a path for walking.

Crunch, crunch, crunch, his feet sank into the snow.

He walked with his toes pointing out, like this. He walked with his toes pointing in, like that.

Then he dragged his feet s-l-o-w-l-y to make tracks. And he found something sticking out of the snow that made a new track.

It was a stick -- a stick that was just right for smacking a snow-covered tree. Down fell the snow -- plop! -- on top of Peter's head.

He thought it would be fun to join the big boys in their snowball fight, but he knew he wasn't old enough -- not yet.

So he made a smiling snowman, and he made angels.

He pretended he was a mountain climber. He climbed up a great big tall heaping mountain snow -- and slid all the way down.

He picked up a handful of snow -- and another, and still another. He packed it round and firm put the snowball in his pocket for tomorrow. Then he went into his warm house.

He told his mother all about his adventures while she took off his wet socks.

And he thought and thought and thought about them.

Before he got into bed he looked in his pocket. His pocket was empty. The snowball wasn't there. He felt very sad.

While he slept, he dreamed that the sun had melted all the snow away.

But when he woke up his dream was gone. The snow was still everywhere. New snow was falling!

After breakfast he called to his friend from across the hall, and they went out together into the deep, deep snow.

-------

The Ezra Jack Keats Foundation made a lovely animated version of the book that will help you understand its historical importance and healing power today:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FmZCQfeWjeQ

The Wikipedia page also explains it:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Snowy_Day

The Snowy Day has been checked out of the New York Public Library more times than The Cat In The Hat; more times than Where The Wild Things Are; more times than Charlotte's Web; and more than any grown-up book by a long-shot. The revolution will not be televised: it will be in children's books and the statistics of the public library.
https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/13/us/new-york-public-library-top-10-checked-out-books-trnd/index.html
